# Name

_yes_ - always respond to positively to queries

# Description

This is used to have an "empty" zone delegated to a server and have it positively answer to any query it
gets, thereby not giving away your zone's content.

A major use case of this handler is to respond to queries from certificate authorities that want to perform
a DNS lookup. Note this is _different_ than the
[DNS-01](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/#dns-01-challenge) challenge that wants to resolve a
TXT record with a specific value in it. The aim is to have the most _minimal_ setup that makes this work for
all potential names in the zone.

For A and AAAA queries it returns 198.51.100.1 and 2001:db8::1 (RFC 5737, RFC 5156) addresses for CAA queries
it return whatever string is set in the configuration, with the Flag bit set to 1 (128 decimal) and the Tag
set to "issue" with value set to `caa`'s **VALUE**.

For NS and SOA queries the `ns` property is used, this must be an out of zone nameserver that serves the _yes_
handler.

This handler handles A, AAAA, NS, SOA, TXT and CAA queries, all others will return a NODATA response.

# Syntax

```
yes {
    caa VALUE
    ns NAMESERVER
}
```

- `caa` hold CAA's record **VALUE**. This may be repeated and will result in multiple CAA records to be returned.
- `ns` is the **NAMESERVER** to use, this must be a name, e.g. `ns1.example.org`. This should resolve back to
  the server hosting the _yes_ handler.

# Examples

```conffile
example.org {
    log
    yes {
        caa letsencrypt.org
        ns ns1.example.org
    }
}
```

Allows names under example.org to have TLS certificates generated by Lets Encrypt. This will generate a record
like so: `www.example.org. IN CAA 128 issue "letsencrypt.org"`.

# Notes

This handler came into existence because some certificate authorities want to query the DNS for private names
for TLS certificate creation. It should be possible to recreate this with a split view and a wildcard CAA
record. This is just easier.

After having a working setup in commit 6f870d4fe7ad5855f97f75f628839794d5c016ca, this was paired down again to
give the most minimal DNS implementation that can be used successfully.

It was tested with the harica.gr TLS provider in 2025.

# Bugs

DNSSEC is not implemented.

Dynamically updating a TXT record and thereby allowing to solve the DNS-01 challenge is also not implemented.

# Also See

yes(1).
